[Music]
hey everyone welcome to my tutorial
today we are going to create this cool
audio visualizer animation and I really
hope you will enjoy this one and if you
do don't forget to leave that like and
if you're new around here hit that
subscribe let's now jump right into
empty blender file and the default Cube
gets to shine again because we were
going to use it so just delete the light
here press X and delete and now select
the cube uh because what I like to do uh
with these audio files I like to do like
an indirect method where I animate one
of the objects and then use its values
um throughout the scene so let's expand
the timeline here a little bit and then
let's expand one more window right there
and let's switch this to video
sequencer and right here we are going to
need the graph editor you can just hover
here and hit control Tab and you will
switch to graph editor now let's press n
for the side panel in the viewport and
in the item menu let's insert the Z
location for the cube so right click and
insert single key frame on frame one
here and that's all we need there and
now basically you just need to pick the
audio file and bake the sound wave into
the graph so here in the 4.2 you go into
Channel and choose sound to samples and
just choose your audio file here it can
be whatever audio file you would like to
have I unfortunately cannot pack this um
because it's a licensed so but you can
go ahead and search for you know
royaltyfree um soundtracks or anything
and use something like that so
immediately you can see the sound is
baked here into the graph and we can
just play it back and the cube will
animate based on the audio file but the
audio file is not playing here so you
would need to insert that into the
channel right there so I will just drag
the same track right there into the
channel one and then move it to frame
one so now this is
synchronized and we can now basically
just collapse
this and move the cube out of the way so
I will scale it down a little bit press
G then Y and move it to the side here it
will still jump up and down here and now
if you want to have this as a looping
animation for example you might want to
find the part you want to Loop the thing
you can do is to cut the sound file
beforehand but it's quite destructive so
what I like to do is to just set the
first and the last frame of the
animation depending on the loop I have
so let me hit control tab here in the
graph editor and I located a nice Loop
starting at frame 1200 and ending at
1523 if you feel like this is too fast
for you or you don't understand some
Core Concepts make sure to check out my
courses I carefully designed them to
take you from beginner skills through
Lal illustration all the way to full
character illustration text sh
environments and much more and I build
the courses as creative projects each
with its own style and every time
there's a new technique or something
needs explaining we stop for a while and
you get an in-depth explanation but in
the end you still get a full project
result so if you're interested please
check out the link in the description so
now if I zoom this out you can see the
active timeline is right there and
that's what I'm going to use um but you
can easily uh just switch this you know
move your start and end frame to locate
the part of the sound you want to be
playing and it's much easier than to you
know bake the sound all over again and
the reason I have it baked on the cube
is that I can now just add any object so
first of all let's go edit preferences
and here in your blender um you get the
add-on still and if you first launch it
you should have an option to install
these as an extensions because that's
like the new system um there's now
unified storage for all the add-ons
Community add-ons default add-ons that
come with bunder and these are called
extensions and you can just locate them
and install right here so right now just
locate the extra mesh objects extension
and click install if you don't have it
installed yet you can search for
extensions right here and then you will
see it active in the add-on section
right there and then just close the
preferences and now you can press Shi a
add mesh and from the extra objects you
can pick the round
Cube and right here we are going to
increase the
radius and divisions to something like
10 so we have a sphere made out of quads
and now we'll press contrl 2 to add
subdivision surface modifier you can see
right here in the
modifiers or you can just go ahead and
add it you know through the menu and set
the levels of f port to two and now
right click Shades mode and here I'm
just going to add simple displace
modifier so let's add modifier the form
and dis
place and we are going to create a new
texture
there let's go to the texture settings
and for this one I use the wood texture
but I changed bands to band
noise and reduce the turbolence all the
way to zero for now and now the
advantage of having the sound wave baked
on another object I can just use the
value of this object um wherever I want
whether it's as a driver in these you
know modifier settings or you can use it
in Geometry notes or what have you so
right here I will use it as a driver um
so let me expand this part a little bit
and right here let's go back to the
modifiers and in the display modifier
let's just right click the strength and
choose add driver and you can click away
uh you can see this turning Violet and
that means there's a driver there now so
right here you can switch this to
drivers and right here you have the
driver
curve and if you select the driver and
choose drivers here if you don't have
this option right there just press n to
expand the side panel you will see the
same settings as you would when you
right click here and choose edit driver
here in the pop-up menu so let me zoom
in a little bit
here because the curve is really
important you can see it goes from 0 0
to 1 one so that's basically like a
value mapping for this so right now this
will be linear and I will get back to
this later but let's set up the driver
right there in the driver you have if
you keep the type as a scripted
expression you have the expression right
there and then you have these input
variables and you can see the default
this right there it's called VAR and
it's used in the expression you can call
this whatever you want so for example in
this case we can call this
wave and we can switch this to wave you
will see it will start working again so
here you create the variables and here
in the expression you use them and the
wave gets populated by whatever you
configure here so here I want to use the
cube object and I want to use its Z
location for this variable so right now
if I play this
back you will see this value is
animating based on the bouncing of the
cube so that's the gist of drivers and
you can remove whatever you have in the
Expressions you can just directly use
the bra value and then you can start
playing with the Curve so right here you
can see the actual values with the dash
lines you can see how it bounces up and
down on that expression on that curve
and you can change the curve right
here from value from 0 to one and change
its Behavior a little bit you will see
it will still bounce on the curve but
now since I changed the curve and the
extremes are a little bit more subtle
you know so for this case I would keep
it like this and then if I want to you
know make it even more subtle I can you
know subtract from that expression so I
can use something like minus 0.8 or
something and now you can see the range
is a little bit different and I can do
even more I can do like
0.9 and then you can multiply the whole
thing by for example 1.2 so you can
really play with the numbers here and
get the desired Behavior you know
convert the original value of the cube
jump up and down to whatever values you
want to see here in the displacement
strength and then you can still go to
the texture settings and play with the
values like turbulence so you can make
it more funky and then you know play
with the size so the mapping is not so
aggressive we can maybe increase the
levels of the subdivision
surface maybe even more but be careful
about the FPS it can start going down
and one important thing to mention I
left this at 25 FPS if you for example
want 30 FPS you need to bake your sound
again obviously because the timing would
be a little bit different so if you want
to change FPS here um just go ahead and
bake the sound again and it will just
work out of the box and then of course
adjust the frame range for the animation
because that would be a little bit
different so basically that's all I used
for this type of audio visual now you
can play with the details like for
example in the texture you might want to
play um with the size or the turbulence
of this but you don't necessarily need
to map this to driver so we can just
switch this to you know timeline go to
start of the animation and for example
do like turbulance of one and insert key
frame here then in the timeline press
shift d to duplicated on the other
side and then here in the middle we can
you know increase this a little bit so
it looks a little bit more interesting
right click and insert single key frame
and now the animation will kind of
animate through the texture noise but
the scale or the strength of the
displacement will be still mapped to the
sound level you have right there and
then what I did for the animation I just
created background so let me just do
that real quick here tab into the edit
mode press s to scale it up right click
choose subdivide and press shift R
several times to get more dense mesh Tab
out press G then Z and move it down and
then basically just going to the
modifiers add that subdivision surface
modifier again and another
displacement and here I used something
like a cloud
texture with a large size right click
shade smooth or or maybe you can go for
something like a distorted
noise that looks quite cool and then I
used the trick for looping animation
where I use the empty so let's press
shift a add an empty let's press shift d
and press y to move it to the side a
little bit and then hold control click
it in the outliner Press contrl p in the
viewport and choose to parent and now
click the original one again and in the
frame one or you know whatever frame you
your animation starts just right click
the X rotation and insert single key
frame move to the end of the animation
and let's change this to 360 right click
and insert single key frame so the main
empty will rotate and take this that's
on the side with it uh just make sure in
the timeline with all the key frames
selected press T and choose linear
interpolation so it starts at speed and
doesn't accelerate and now we'll use
this empty to map this texture so let's
go to the modifier panel and for the
coordinates we'll use object and just
pick this empty right here you can see
now this is animating you can of course
map this uh to the cube movement through
some driver expression or you know
geometry nodes and now I can just select
this empty right here and scale it up
and down to adjust the waves and now
let's look from the camera and I think
this will need to be a little bit larger
here
and yeah basically that's it that's all
I used now for the
material let's select the object and
let's switch this to Shader editor press
contrl B to limit the preview only to
camera bounds and let's go to render
settings switch to Cycles enable GPU and
the noising right
here and something like 128 samples
should be fine and now let's P shift a
and let's add a light area light press G
then Z move it up a little
bit and let's make it a little bit
larger and let's increase to something
like 500 and press Z and preview the
rendered animation so this is what we
have here and now I'll select the object
create a new
material and I really like the
combination of you know gray scale and
strong orange saturated color so that's
what I went here for and redu the
roughness all the way to zero this can
be a bit brighter
here um but I wanted to give this you
know a little bit of a special effect so
let's press shift a and choose frenal
and now if you have the old Wrangler
active so again you can go to edit
preferences extensions if you don't have
it and search for Wrangler but I already
have it installed here in the
add-ons so you can see right here um so
just get the node Wrangler and now if
you hold control and shift and click the
frontel you will see the preview and we
can reduce the I you will see it will
create these like nice Edge masks
depending on where your camera is so we
can now press shift a use color mix so
let's search for color mix color and
plug the frel into factor and then press
contrl C hovering over the color here
paste it right there and change this to
White and connect to color and hold
control shift shift and click on the
principal Shader back again and of
course you can press shift a add
ramp and you know make this transition
on the frontal more sharp you can even
invert it if you
want so yeah basically that's what I use
there and then you can of course
duplicate this light first of all maybe
make it a little bit stronger here and
then press shift
d and move it somewhere back
press R then X Change the rotation so it
falls a little bit more shallow on the
waves
there and increase the power to
something really
strong and then you know in the render
settings you can go ahead and in the
color management play with the contrast
settings and with the
exposure right there and you should have
your animation
working and then of course in the output
settings you can go ahead switch to FFN
Peg encoding switch to MP4 for example
and don't forget to include the audio
with some codc um if you have the track
you know in the sequencer and then just
choose your folder here hit render and
render animation so yeah that's it from
me today um you know just go ahead get
creative um there are multiple ways how
to use that value in form of drivers um
you can add multiple objects you can map
this to their rotation to their scale um
use modifiers map it to whatever value
you want to have animated um and I would
love to see what you create so you know
if you create something really
interesting tag me on the Instagram with
polygon Runway handle so I can have a
look or you know share it with us on our
Discord um you can find the links to
Discord in the YouTube channel
description so yeah that's the audio
visual animation from me today I really
hope you enjoyed this one and again if
you did please leave a like and if
you're new around here hit that
subscribe thank you all for watching and
have a wonderful day
[Music]